---
title: 'About Me'
description:
  'A bit of my professional journey, from college to building a career.'
date: '2025-07-14'
category: 'Utils'
tags: ['career']
pinned: true
---

I used to listen to this song a lot when I was just getting into programming, so
if you'd like, feel free to play it while reading this post:

<iframe
  style={{ borderRadius: '12px' }}
  src='https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/21AUdfi6fLFDp9JuNcHsfS?utm_source=generator&theme=0'
  width='100%'
  height='152'
  frameBorder='0'
  allowFullScreen
  allow='autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture'
  loading='lazy'
/>

# 1. Who am I?

My name is Gabriel Duete. I've been working as a Web Developer since 2021, and
I'm currently a Front-End Developer at Juntos Somos Mais.

I'm a big fan of open source and have made a few contributions throughout my
career — writing articles ([dev.to](https://dev.to/gabrielduete),
[tabnews](https://www.tabnews.com.br/gabrielduete), and now here, haha), opening
and interacting with PRs and issues on
[GitHub](https://github.com/gabrielduete), answering questions on
[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/users/16782642/gabriel-duete) in both
EN and PT-BR, and participating in community events, especially with
[He4rt Developers](https://heartdevs.com/).

**Technologies I’ve worked with include**: _JavaScript, TypeScript, React,
Next.js, Vue, Nuxt.js, Web Components, Stencil, CSS preprocessors (Tailwind,
SASS, Styled-components, Chakra UI, Ionic, etc...), AWS, Sentry, Git, GitHub,
Unit Testing, E2E Testing, CI/CD, Software Architecture, Clean Architecture,
TDD, OOP._

# 2. Career

## <strong>2.1 How I got into tech</strong>

Around the age of 16 or 17, I got to know the tech world better through my best
friend and my brother. Right away, I felt like it matched perfectly with my
personal goals and ambitions.

That’s when I decided to dive into it and start my journey to become a
developer.

## <strong>2.2 College Journey</strong>

To do that, I needed to get into a public university through Brazil’s national
entrance exam (ENEM). Thankfully, I got a good score on the 2018 exam and was
accepted into IFCE – Crato Campus in 2019!

Besides improving my programming fundamentals, I made amazing friends who I
carry in my heart wherever I go. I’m so grateful to have met them — they made a
huge difference in my life. I thank God for placing them in my path. Love you
all! ❤️

During my second or third semester, something unexpected happened: the COVID-19
pandemic. Classes were suspended for “just 15 days” — and ended up being on hold
for almost 3 years. It took a while for the institute to adapt to remote
learning.

Despite the initial frustration, I saw it as a chance to fully focus on my
career — and that’s how I started paving my way to my first job in tech.

In the meantime, a good friend of mine, Wilton, invited me to work on some
freelance projects. I styled a website using Bootstrap and solved a few
programming challenges. That was my first taste of making money from code. From
there, I created a study roadmap and dove deeper into the field.

## <strong>2.3 First Job!</strong>

In October 2021, the #He4rtConf2021 event took place with several talks and a
recruiting initiative from Juntos Somos Mais. During the event, I applied for a
Junior Front-End position. I went through the interview — and didn’t get the
job.

But thankfully, the recruiter liked my profile and marked my name for a
potential internship. A few days later, they called me — and I accepted!

I started as an intern in a super strong technical team. I was lucky to work
with people who taught me a lot and helped shape my vision as a professional.
True role models, both in coding and in teamwork and career mindset. From
leadership to front-end to back-end — I learned from everyone.

Today, I’m a full-time developer and have been with the company for nearly 4
years, involved in lots of projects and different technologies. Still growing,
learning, and thankful for every person who’s been part of this journey.

## <strong>2.4 First International Freela!</strong>

In 2024, I landed my first freelance project for an international client, thanks
to a referral from my buddy Rickelme. I teamed up with a friend, and we’ve been
working on it — still in the MVP phase, but once it launches, I’ll definitely
post about it here.

## <strong>3. Final Thoughts</strong>

That’s it! A small recap of my journey so far. I’ll probably use this blog to
post about the articles and projects I work on, so feel free to explore, read,
comment, share ideas... thanks a lot for stopping by! God bless!

#### 4. Easter Egg

##### Came here from the easter egg tip? Try hovering your mouse over the footer and use the console to see the progress, hehe.
