---
title:
  'The Art of Lawzy Loading: How to improve your frontend app performance.
  (Next.js/React)'
description:
  "Learn how to apply Lazy Loading in React and Next.js projects to improve your
  web application's performance. Explore practical examples using dynamic
  import, React.lazy, and react-lazyload to reduce load time and optimize user
  experience."
date: '02-17-2025'
category: 'Front-end'
tags: ['Next.js', 'React', 'Performance']
---

# Introduction

You noted that your application is freezing at certain times or showing poor
performance? Maybe using lazy loading can resolve your performance problems.

Lazy Loading is a performance optimization strategy. With this strategy, we
ensure that some resources are loaded only when they are really needed, when
they are about to enter the page's viewport (visible area).

## Overview

By default we can use Lazy Loading in Javascript, CSS, Fonts, Images and
iframes.

We can instantiate the loading attribute on an `img` or `iframe` element:

![example-attribute_loading.html](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/71u1kqx5sncswurvi1uo.png)

With this, we are able to instruct the browser that we need the loading of this
element to be delayed until it arrives in the browser's viewport.

# Lazy Loading in Nextjs

Using nextjs, things work differently, we have two main native strategies that
we can use to create components with lazy loading, but I want to add one more to
make our lives easier:

- [Dynamic Imports](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/optimizing/lazy-loading#nextdynamic)
- [Lazy - React](https://react.dev/reference/react/lazy)
- [react-lazyload](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-lazy-load)

# Dynamic Imports

With the Dynamic Imports of Nextjs, we can do dynamic imports, very useful for
when a React component is not required in the initial page loading.

A good example of use is in feedback components such as modes or alerts, are
usually displayed after some particular user action, so why load it in the
initial load?

We can only import it when it is really necessary!

Let's see an example where I have a button component and a Snackbar component of
the material ui. After clicking the snackbar button should be opened with a
warning:

![code](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/mny2gzxqeek3itovxdr4.png)

Result:

![Code Result on Web Application](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/vgf51ji9vr6fj00w6qyc.gif)

We can see that the Snackbar and Alert component is initially charged on the
page, but is it only used if the user clicks the button, so why load it
initially? What if the user doesn't click the button?Snackbar and Alert loading
becomes useless.

Let's look at Build's time, pay attention to the first point of Size and First
Load JS:

![Image showing the build of a Nextjs application](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/uwhnnhg46rn2thj1xnqj.png)

OK. Now let's make the same page, but using dynamic imports on Snackbar and
Alert, after all they should only be charged if the click the button is done.

![Example code using dynamic imports from next.js](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/q73g9cu49o3ujejs22xp.png)

Same result:

![Code Result on Web Application](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/3jee9bnacpc9idqfm01l.gif)

Build:

![Image showing the build of a Nextjs application](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/6kn8w0dslvp44uq6hayl.png)

We can see that the size of the size of First Load JS fell sponsoly!

From `43 KB` to `35.6 KB` And from `148 KB` to `141 KB`

You may be claiming, "But wasn't that little?" We are talking about just one
page with a simple functionality and it was already a gain, now imagine the
total gains that your site would have if it was more pages?

Let's calculate the total size for 10 pages before and after optimization:

1. **Before optimization:**
   - Size per page: **43 KB**
   - Total for 10 pages: **43 KB Ã— 10 = 430 KB**
2. **After optimization:**
   - Size per page: **35.6 KB**
   - Total for 10 pages: **35.6 KB Ã— 10 = 356 KB**

### **Total Savings**

- **Total reduction:** 430 KB - 356 KB = **74 KB**
- **Percentage reduction:** (74 KB Ã· 430 KB) Ã— 100 â‰ˆ **17.2%**

This shows that in a website with multiple pages, small optimizations can make a
significant difference in overall resource consumption and loading speed.

We have seen how dynamic imports can impact page load times, it's a great and
easy resource to use and raise the performance of your projects.

# Lazy React

We can also use Lazy native react functionality that allows us to make dynamic
imports, very similar to the Next.js Dynamic Imports, but has a difference.

In Lazy, we need to use suspense as the component's father we want to render,
and pass a component that in Fallback, which will be shown in a loading while
the component is being imported. But this will only happen the first time the
component will be imported, the next no longer will be loading, because the
component has been loaded, unless the page is recharged, so will have the
loading in the first load.

Let's see in practice:

![Example code next.js using lazy react](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/dyi8m0yt6lje5cev6dv7.png)

Result:

![Code Result on Web Application](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/udehn5nfq9kxtq055yf4.gif)

Note that in the first click of the button, it was displaying an element with
"loading ...", that's what we went through in the component's fallback. But it
will be displayed only the first time the component is clicked, and will only be
displayed if the page is recharged.

Ok, but let's see now with data, the impact Lazy had on page loading:

![Image showing the build of a Nextjs application](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/vmrqapbfiaibdpk23t6e.png)

Note that it had a higher reduction to the Dynamic Imports of Next.js! But on
the other hand, it will now have an extra loading component, which can interfere
with UX (user experience).

So this type of practice should be aligned with the design and product team, to
understand what type of loading would be used, but it is not recommended, as it
can negatively impact user experience, so it is recommended to use only in
specific cases, such as For example the page is really slow.

# React Lazyload

`React-Lazyload` works slightly different from previous ones, and does not
directly impact the initial loading on the page. `React-Lazyload` monitors the
position of the elements in relation to the page. When a Lazyload Son element is
close to Viewport, it is rendered.

So we can put elements that are heavy to render as the user Scrolla the page.

Let's see in practice:

![Example code next.js using react-lazyload](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/sbeoxao9npd352j2anyz.png)

The code basically generates 15 images and displays on the screen, imagine how
heavy it would be for the user to download it all at once? With Lazyload, it can
download by steps, as you browse the page.

Result:

![Code Result on Web Application](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/xmex10qd2o3008sh9lw0.gif)

We can see in the Network tab, that the generated images are downloaded while
scrolling the page, this brings us a large increase in performance, and ensuring
that the user's internet can download everything without bottlenecks.

Imagine the performance gains we would have in our applications using Lazyload
and dynamic imports at the same time? ðŸ¤¯

It will surely positiously impact the user's experience, and he will be grateful
for using a service without crashes or bottlenecks.

If you want, you can view the code
[here](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/q44yzd).

# Conclusion

We have seen some valuable practices on how to improve the performance of your
applications using Lazy Loading in Next JS, how advantageous it can be for the
user's exhibition, load something only when really needed.

I hope it was clear in the explanations. Any questions can call me to talk, stay
with God and good studies! =)
